-: Welcome back.
So let's see the Docker architecture now.
So or even we can call it as Docker terminology.
So we have a Docker host and inside Docker host
primarily we will install the Docker demo.
So the Docker demo, Docker D reasons
for the Docker API requests and manages Docker objects
such as images, containers, networks, and then volumes.
So the next is the Docker client.
Okay, so Docker client is an optional thing
in the Docker host.
So we can either install on the Docker host
or on our own desktop and using the Docker client
we will be able to communicate to the Docker demo.
So Docker client can be present
on either Docker host or any other mission.
So the Docker client, Docker is the primary way
that many Docker users interact with the Docker.
So when you use commands such as Docker run
the client sends these commands to Docker D
which is nothing but Docker demo, which carries them out.
So the Docker command uses the Docker APA
so the Docker client can communicate
with more than one respect to demo.
Okay, so moving on.
The next thing is the Docker images.
You can see here the image one and then image two.
So, and image is a read-only template
with instructions for creating a Docker container.
So often an image is based on another image
with some additional customizations.
So example, like we may build an image which is based
on uber two image.
So we already have a uber two image
and then consider that image we are taking
and then building our own image using that uber two image.
So with that uber two image,
we install additional application options
of what we are planning to use
which is like Apache web servers or Java JDK
and then additional tomcats, whatever we want to install.
And then deploy our application inside that.
And then package a test, our own application image.
So the base image there we are using is that uber image.
So that is called images based on another image.
So moving on from Docker images
the next thing is the Docker containers.
So a container is a runnable instance of an image.
So we can create, start, stop, move,
or delete a container using the Docker APARCLI.
So we can connect the container
to one or more networks, attach storage to it
or even create a new image based on its current state.
So when a container is removed,
any changes to its states that are not stored
in persistent storage disappear.
So that's most important point from container's perspective.
So moving on.
So let's see, we have a Docker host
and on Docker host we have the Docker demand.
So if you want to pull the image
and then run it as a container.
So what's the process going to be?
Let's go ahead and then see that? No.
So Docker client, it can be my desktop
or even the Docker host.
So what we do is
like Docker client is nothing but the Docker demand.
DLCK. Yeah, okay.
So I'll say Docker pull, engineers demos/hello.
So one sample image.
So what happens is, it'll go and then communicate
to the Docker demand, and then via Docker demand
it'll go to the Docker registry, right?
So from Docker registry,
I'll try to pull the engineer's demo/hello
and then download that image to my Docker host.
So from my Docker host,
so the image is present here.
So now I'm going to run it, right?
So to run it, I'm going to say Docker run
and then some high fund port, local port,
and then image port, whatever it is there.
And then high fund, and then the complete image name.
So whenever I do that
it is going to run it as a container in the Docker codes.
So what we have done
so first we have pulled the image from the Docker registry
and the store does images here, and then we have run it.
And then now the runnable instance
of an image is called the container
which means like the container has started
and then application started serving.
So now in this overall thing
you have seen client and then host, but you really
don't know what is this registry or Docker hub, right?
So let's see, what is this okay?
So a Docker registry stores the Docker images.
So Docker hub is a public registry that anyone can use
and Docker is configured to look
for images on Docker hub by default.
So we can even run our own private registry
in our cloud systems like Elastic Container Registry
are using Docker hub.
Also, you can even run it means
like the Docker provide the software to run it
as a private registry number local data centers.
So when we use the Docker pull
or Docker run commands that required images are pulled
from our Configured, respect your registry, right?
So when we use the Docker push command
our images push you back to the registry.
So we are going to see two flows
by seeing what we have seen here, the complete thing.
We are going to distribute into two flows
and then implement them in our upcoming lectures.
So the flow one is two, what we have seen here
like pull our container image here
and then run it as a container, right?
So the second flow is like build a image here
run it as a container locally
and then test it and finally push it to the Docker hub.
So we are going to see all those things now
in a step by step manner.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.